Up until now, I've referred to
the models that we're using as
Maximum Entropy Models, but
actually what we find is these likelihood
maximizing models which I define in
a certain exponential model form.
In this part of I want to show why
these models are also referred
to as Maximum Entropy Models and
what the motivating intuition is for
the maximum entropy idea.
The motivating intuition for Maximum
Entropy Models is that, in general,
there are tons of probability
distributions out there.
Most of which are very spiked and
specific, and
would tend to overfit on
particular data write ons.
What we want to do is to
find the distribution
that says uniform as possible
except in places where we know
there's some reason to believe that the
probability distribution isn't uniform.
Uniformity can be thought
of as high entropy.
We searched for distributions which
have the properties we desire but
which also have high entropy.
So this is kind of embodying
a statement of Thomas Jefferson's.
Ignorance is preferable to error, and he
is less remote from the truth who believes
nothing than he who
believes what is wrong.
So what we're wanting to do is not
have any beliefs in our model that
we haven't particularly stated.
To the extent that we haven't stated
any constraints in our model.
We want the probabilities to
be as uniform as possible.
So entropy is a quantity that measures
the uncertainty of a distribution.
So if we have an event x which has
some probability, we can work out
the surprise of that event by taking
the log of the inverse of the probability.
So if you see an event which you think has
a very small probability of happening,
your surprise is then great.
If you thought it had zero probability
of happening, your surprise is infinite.
On the other hand,
if the event had a very high probability
of happening, your surprise is small.
In particular, if you think it had
probability 1, then your surprise is 0.
We can then workout the entropy of
the distribution by taking the expectation
over the surprise which can be
written out in this form here.
And this gives us the equation for
entropy.
So here's an example of
that with the simple
case of flipping up
possibly weighted coin.
So, if the coin always comes down heads or
always comes down tails,
then there's no entropy in
the distribution, and the entropy is
maximized, and the coin is equally
likely to come down heads or tails.
Let me go through some concrete examples
that show what happens when we try and
maximize the entropy of a distribution
either minimize the commitment.
So, we're starting off with no beliefs and
then in some ways we're going to want
a probability distribution that resembles
some reference distribution which for us
we can be taking straight from these data.
So what we're going to say in our model
is it we want to maximize entropy subject
to feature-based constraints.
And precisely what our feature
based constraints are is to say,
that the expectations of the values,
of features in the model, should be
the same as the empirical expectations of
those features over our observed data.
So, every time that we
add features that puts
constraints into the model, and,
therefore, it lowers the maximum entropy.
But, on the other hand, it raises
the likelihood of the observed data.
It takes the distribution
further from uniform, but
it brings the distribution
closer to the data.
So, here's a very simple example of that.
So here was our unconstrained
entropy distribution,
which has it's maximum right here.
If we put in the constraint that said
the probability of a hit was .3.
Then we constrained the distribution
to just a single point.
And so
at this point the constrained distribution
has a lower maximum entropy
than we had before.
That's example in one dimensions so
simple it's hard to see much.
So let's do a slightly more
complex example in two dimensions.
So here,
we have two probabilities.
The probability of heads and
the probability of tails.
So, let's just assume those
are two numbers between 0 and
1 and we haven't even modeled
the fact that heads and
tails are in complimentary distribution.
Well then, if we model this
entropy surface that we find that
the maximum entropy comes
about when the probability of
p of H and p of T is around there and
why is that well that's because for
components of the entropy
distribution minus x log x.
They have their optimum at the value
of 1 on e which is about .38, .4 or
something like that.
So that's not what we normally see when
we see the entropy picture for a coin.
And that's because normally we're
immediately put in this constraint,
say that heads and
tails are in complimentary distributions.
The sum of their probabilities
have to add up to one.
And so then, once we do that,
we've constrained the space by saying we
have to be at somewhere along this line.
And then we are in the situation
that interferes maximize
by having the probability of head equaling
the probability of tails equaling a half.
But again we can sort of stick
in one more constraint and
say the probability of heads as .3 and
then again,
we've constrained the distribution
down to a single feasible point.
And the point to notice is that
with each of these constraints,
the maximum entropy of
the model has gone lower.
So here are the true
maximum of the function.
Now, we're sort of away from the true
maximum of the function, but
still have a reasonably
high entropy point and
here, we've wandered even further
from the maximum of the function.
So, now maximum entropy is going down, but
we're modeling facts about the situation
in the world that we want to model.
Let's look at a concrete example,
it's a little bit closer to
a natural language problem now.
Let's suppose we have this event space.
So we have parts of speech,
where here we have six parts of speech.
Nouns, plural nouns, proper nouns, proper
pronouns, and two third parts of speech.
And this was our empirical data.
So that we saw 36 different events and
of those the most common
things we saw are proper
nouns which is actually
two thirds of the data and
then we saw some regular nouns and
we saw a few verbs.
Right, so if we have a probability to each
of this events and we just say maximize.
And theirs sort of P1, P2, P3 and
we say maximize the probabilities again,
the Maxent entropy distribution
is by setting each of them to
the value 1 on e but
that's not what we want.
We want to say that this is a set
of categorical probabilities and so
then the maximum entropy
distribution is to say that each of
those probabilities is one sixth.
Uniformity is the maximum entropy
distribution in categorical distributions.
But that's too uniform given
what happened in the data,
that nouns are much more
common than verbs in our data.
And so we're going to add a feature that
has value 1 if they take as a noun and
0 otherwise.
Well, the expected value of that
feature is 32 over 36, 8/9ths.
That's just using the data
from the previous slide.
So if we add that constraint and then say,
what's the Maxent entropy distribution.
It's going to set the probabilities so
that this constraint is satisfied.
The sum of these
probabilities equals 32/36.
But within that category probability
mass is still going to be distributed
uniformly because that's
the Maxent entropy distribution.
Similarly, within the verb classes,
you're going to get the remaining
probability mass distributed uniformly.
At that point we might notice that proper
nouns are much more frequent than common
nouns so we can add a second constraint
that is a feature that has value
one when the tag is a proper noun.
And the expectation of that feature
is 2/3 of the data of proper nouns,
as we noted before.
If we put that into the model,
we then get the expectation of
that feature observed that 2/3 of
the probability mask goes to proper nouns,
which is again distributed uniformly.
We still have the feature that 32/36 of
the probability mass goes
to some kind of noun.
So the remainder is distributed
evenly among the other nouns and
this is as before.
Now of course we can keep
on refining our model.
We could for
example add a feature to say that singular
nouns comprised a certain
amount of the data.
So singular nouns comprised
18/36 of the data and
we can add that constraint in, and
eventually if we added enough constraints,
we'd force the distribution to be exactly
the same as the empirical distribution.
It's very easy to see that Maxent
entropy models are convex models.
So what's the idea of a convex function?
The idea of a convex function
here f is that if you take
the function value at a weighted
mean of any set of points,
then that function value is greater
than what you do if you take
what function value at those points and
then weight those function
values that you've found that
we're kind of above it up here and
so that's distinguished
from something like
a non convex function where you
can have these local minima.
And so then the function value at this
average point is beneath what the function
value is if you just take the average
of the values at the 2 red points.
Convexity guarantees that a function
has a single global maximum.
Because any higher points of
the function are greedily reachable.
In the maximum entropy formulation,
it's easy to see that we
have a convex function.
So, we can start off by showing that
the entropy function is convex.
And so, we have the minus x
log x is a convex function,
and so therefore we take a sum and
we drew it over here.
That's a convex function.
If we then take sum of convex functions,
that's always convex.
Then after that what we're doing is
adding constraints to the function.
And so the feasible region of
a constrained entropy function is
a linear subspace of it which
then also has to be convex.
So when we put a linear subspace
constraint right here, throughout
entropy surface that we've still got
a convex function coming out of it.
And so, I'm not going to show it here but
the same is true for our original maximum
likelihood presentation that
we get a convex function.
Okay, well I hope you now understand where
the name, Maxent Models, comes from,
and what the key idea of
the maximum entropy principle is-